Feature EML-521: Create Dev Assistant Technical Documentation (#184)
etendosoftware/docs: docs/developer-guide/etendo-copilot/available-assistants/dev-assistant.md

    - IA
    - Machine Learning
    - Windows, tabs and fields
    - Create Table
    - Add column
---

# DEV ASSISTANT

## Overview

This intelligent Assistant is designed to help users to automate the process of create a window and a table in both the Etendo ERP and the database throw the Copilot chat. It is possible ask the complete task to the assistant or proceed step by step, also the assistant can suggest elements to complete the fields correctly. 

## Components
The Dev Assistant is composed of the following components:

- **DDL** tool: This tools allows to regsitering and creating tables on Etendo and on the database using queries generated with the parameters given on the tool. The query is adjusted for the user needs, for example, if the user wants to add a column with a default value, the tool can receive a value or not if the element should not has a default value.

- Multiples Webhooks: These webhooks are used to run the java files that modify the fields on the Etendo ERP and execute the queries generated previously. These webhooks are: RegisterTable, CreateTable, RegisterFields, RegisterWindowAndTab, RegisterColumns, ElementsHandler, SyncTerms.

## Functionality

> 1. Ask the Copilot chat for a table to register in the system with the correct prefix. The assistant will then register in the system the table and create it in database, including the mandatory columns. At this stage the assistant checks if the module is in development. If is not, the assistant prompts the user for a correct prefix from a module in development. Additionaly, the assistant checks if the table name is already in use; if it is, asks the user to provide a new name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ask the **Dev Assistant** for a window to add in the system and  the module database prefix where the table will be exported. The assistant will then register in the system the table and create it in database, including the mandatory columns. At this stage the assistant checks if the module is in development. If is not, the assistant prompts the user for a correct prefix from a module in development. Additionaly, the assistant checks if the table name is already in use; if it is, asks the user to provide a new name.
```
